# 4.3 Maintenance and Future Development

## Current Limitations of Project

* Platform Support - Whilst the game can work on other devices, meaning things like Tablets and Phones, the game is very awkward to play on them.
* Graphics - Most of the assets of the game are simple cubes and placeholders that I used for development to save time.
* Performance - The current map is a result of anything larger causing lag on devices like my laptop. If the map were to expand the game would need to be better optimised.
* Gameplay - Due to the time constraints there is only the very basic gameplay.

These can all be improved or corrected with more time and future development which would allow the game and the gameplay to expand significantly.

## Maintenance

For the short term, meaning that if the games scope remained the same, there would only be a small amount of bugfixes required to make sure the game functions almost perfectly. If the limitations above were to be addressed, it would require a lot more work.

### Current Bug Fixes

If the game were to remain effectively the same, without any extra features being added, it would be a relatively short (compared to the total time spent on the project) development plan to fix these issues. This would be easily fixed by one person who is familiar with the code; the process of understanding it has hopefully been simplified by the use of Object Orientated Programming and also the breaking it up into separate files.

This means that to fix all the issues that currently exist in the game it would likely take another dev cycle or two; followed up by testing the game in a similar way to how I have in the previous cycles.

### Addressing Current Limitations

To address the current limitations the game would first require the current bug fixes mentioned above to be carried out as otherwise the issues would only worsen. This means that then there may also be new limitations on the project, and these will need to be reassessed.

Some of the issues that may appear from expanding the scope of the project are the fact that the game is web based; this is a limitation as rather than using all the available computer resources it only uses those allocated to the web browser which can cause lag issues. There is also the limitation of the "game engine" used as THREE js is just a javascript library and whilst what functionality it has is impressive; it isn't the same as using something like Unreal Engine or Unity meaning it may need to be ported to a new engine.

## Future Development

### Short Term Development

#### Bug Fixes

* [Scene Issues](4.1-evaluation-of-success-criteria.md#criterion-1) - The issues caused by THREE scenes still being able to interacted with despite them not being rendered could be fixed by simply positioning the elements inside one of the scenes differently. For example, making the MAP scene have a y value of 500 meaning it would be difficult to click on invisible elements.
* [Camera Alignment](4.1-evaluation-of-success-criteria.md#criterion-1) - Switching to an orthographic camera would fix most of the issues however as mentioned before this wasn't implemented as it caused positioning issues. This could be fixed by using a separate perspective camera \[in the same place] for DomEvents and having the orthographic camera just be for visuals.
* [Window Resizing](4.1-evaluation-of-success-criteria.md#criterion-1) - This can be fixed by creating a HTML element that contains the THREE.js WebGLRenderer, and then using CSS to make that element fill 100% of the screen at all times.
* [UI Map Issues](4.1-evaluation-of-success-criteria.md#criterion-1) - The UI covering issues could be fixed by using CSS breakpoints to hide parts of the UI when the screen gets smaller. However, this would hide some of the functionality from mobile users.

#### Object Orientated Programming

Throughout the project I have tried to make as much use of Object Orientated Programming (OOP) as possible and also breaking the project up into smaller files. However, despite my best efforts there are some functions that are only inside the `game.js` file; for example, setting up the DomEvents is just a for loop inside `game.js` when it could instead by stored inside each room.

#### Map Performance Issues

As is visible in earlier cycles the map used to be [made up of connected rooms](https://youtu.be/T0Jdj1pmE4k); however, this caused a number of performance issues especially on my laptop. So I came up with the current solution of having a basic Map screen and then being able to click into separate rooms; these are in separate scenes which causes less lag as they aren't loaded. However, this solution can only scale so much and would need to be replaced if the map was to expand a lot; it would also need updating if there was procedural generation.

### Long Term Plan

#### Current Limitations

* Platform Support - As mentioned above in short term development there is an issues that needs to be fixed relating to UI scaling. This will also need a mobile only UI to be created as that will make it fully compatible.
* Graphics - The issues with placeholder models can easily be fixed by using THREE.js's import models feature; however, this is part of the long term plan as doing all the modelling for the game would take a significant amount of effort.
* Performance - Mentioned in short term development, but also here as the solution listed above can only work for a certain sized map.
* Gameplay - This would require working through all of the features listed in [1.4](../1-analysis/1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md) and creating a roadmap of which ones can be added first.

#### Browser + Engine Issues

As mentioned in section above about [addressing current limitations](4.3-maintenance-and-future-development.md#addressing-current-limitations) a number of bugs that this game faces are from the "engine" that is used for the game (THREE.js). Future development on the game may require the switch over to a more capable engine.

Switching engine would also have another benefit as the game would no longer have to run in the browser which would improve performance. This would improve performance as the game would no longer be limited to only the browsers allocated resources and could instead utilise multiple cores of the CPU and GPU.

#### Advanced Gameplay

At the moment the game only contains the very basic gameplay; this is due to the limitations of THREE and the fact that I had to build what is effectively a framework for creating the game. On the plus side this means that development would likely increase in speed as the basis for the game is there, this means that the features listed in [1.4](../1-analysis/1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md) and [1.5](../1-analysis/1.5-success-criteria.md) could be implemented fully. There would also be the option for procedural generation, however, this would take more effort than other feature such as a true behaviour tree for the enemy and also things like inventory for characters and interactive objects in the world.

#### Future Limitations

* The project in the future may become too much to work on for one person, for example, porting to a different engine or creating 3D assets that are high quality are huge tasks.
* The atmosphere of the game may struggle to be scary as the game aims to be if the scope of the game increases, it might become more like a management game.
